.TH ASANA-CLI 1 "October 2025" "asana-cli 0.1.9" "Asana CLI Manual"
.SH NAME
asana-cli \- command-line interface for Asana
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asana-cli
[\fIglobal-options\fR] \fIsubcommand\fR [\fIsubcommand-options\fR]
.br
.B asana-cli completions
\fIshell\fR
.br
.B asana-cli manpage
[\fB--dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asana-cli
is a Rust-based CLI that surfaces common Asana workflows from the terminal,
including configuration, project management, task automation, and bulk
operations. The tool embraces the Unix subcommand pattern and supports
multi-format output, caching, and script-friendly behaviours.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help
Print help information for the binary or the selected subcommand.
.TP
.B --version
Display semantic version information.
.SH SUBCOMMAND OVERVIEW
.TP
.B config
Manage persisted configuration values such as the Personal Access Token.
Supports \fBset\fR, \fBget\fR, and \fBtest\fR subcommands.
.br
Use \fBconfig set workspace --workspace <gid>\fR (or \fB--clear\fR) to
control the default workspace, and \fBconfig set assignee --assignee <id>\fR to
resolve the \fBme\fR alias in task commands.
.TP
.B project
List, inspect, create, update, and delete projects, including member
management. Supports filtering, sorting, and multiple output formats.
.TP
.B task
Comprehensive task workflows including CRUD operations, subtasks,
relationships, bulk JSON/CSV processing, and fuzzy search.
.TP
.B completions
Generate shell completion scripts for Bash, Zsh, Fish, or PowerShell.
.TP
.B manpage
Render this manual page to stdout or write it to the directory specified via
\fB--dir\fR.
.TP
.B doctor
Run environment health checks and report tooling status.
.TP
.B update
Download and install the latest published release.
.SH TASK SUBCOMMAND HIGHLIGHTS
.TP
.B task list
List tasks assigned to the current user (default) or scoped via
workspace/project filters. Supports \fB--output\fR table|json|csv|markdown.
.TP
.B task create
Create tasks with natural language dates, project assignments, and custom
field values.
.TP
.B task update
Modify existing tasks, toggle completion, change assignees, or adjust
relationships.
.TP
.B task create-batch
Process JSON or CSV payloads to create many tasks at once. Use
\fB--continue-on-error\fR to skip failures.
.TP
.B task search
Perform fuzzy matching across recent and fetched tasks. Supports interactive
selection when attached to a TTY.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/asana-cli/config.toml
Primary configuration file storing defaults (workspace, assignee) and the
encrypted Personal Access Token when persisted via \fBconfig set token\fR.
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/asana-cli/cache/
Disk-backed API cache enabling offline access and fast replays.
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/asana-cli/templates/
User-editable project templates.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B ASANA_PAT
Override the Personal Access Token for the current invocation.
.TP
.B ASANA_BASE_URL
Point the client at an alternative API endpoint (useful for mocks).
.TP
.B ASANA_WORKSPACE
Provide a default workspace gid when creating resources.
.TP
.B ASANA_CLI_CONFIG_HOME, ASANA_CLI_DATA_HOME
Override the configuration and data directories, respectively.
.SH COMPLETION & MANPAGE GENERATION
Generate completions or the man page from source to keep local artefacts in
sync with the binary:
.PP
.nf
just completions
just manpage
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on success; non-zero on failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR asana (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR just (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Workhelix Engineering <engineering@workhelix.com>
